March newsletter (#809)
writethedocs/www: docs/blog/newsletter-march-2019.rst

.. post:: March 5, 2019
   :tags: newsletter

######################################
Write the Docs Newsletter – March 2019
######################################

Hi everyone! Beth here, with your March newsletter. How on earth is February over already?

We've got lots of conference news to share with you. Potential speakers, you'll be excited to hear that the `Prague Call for Proposals </conf/prague/2019/news/cfp-open/>`_ is open. Get working on those submissions - they need to be in by midnight (CEST) on Tuesday 30 April.

> And there's even more going on in Europe: `a new conference in Vilnius, Lithuania </conf/vilnius/2019/news/init/>`_! It'll be two days, 2-3 June; the CFP and ticket sales are opening soon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And there's even more going on in Europe: `a new conference in Vilnius, Lithuania </conf/vilnius/2019/>`_! It'll be two days, 2-3 June; the CFP and ticket sales are opening soon.
```

> On the other side of the pond, `Portland speakers have been announced </conf/portland/2019/news/announcing-speakers/>`_. If you're considering buying tickets, do it soon so you don't miss out: they sell out earlier every year. Want to go but need to persuade someone senior that it's worthwhile? The "`convince your manager </conf/portland/2019/convince-your-manager/>`_" page might help.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the other side of the pond, `Portland speakers have been announced </conf/portland/2019/news/announcing-speakers/>`_. If you're considering buying tickets, do it soon so you don't miss out: they sell out earlier every year. Want to go but need to persuade someone senior that it's worthwhile? The `convince your manager </conf/portland/2019/convince-your-manager/>`_ page might help.
```

> You may also be interested to know that we've updated the `code of conduct </code-of-conduct/>`_. Some sections have been improved and others clarified - for full details, check out the `code of conduct blog post </blog/new-community-coc-2019/>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We've updated our `code of conduct </code-of-conduct/>`_. Some sections have been improved and others clarified - for full details, check out the `code of conduct blog post </blog/new-community-coc-2019/>`_.
```

I don#'t think this is a 'may' kinda scenario.

Author: yep, agreed!

It was also pointed out that a cover letter can be a great way to explain your sideways, unexpected, or less-than-conventional entry into the position you're applying for - often the case for docs-related jobs.

----------------------------------------------
Moving to docs-as-code: static site generators
----------------------------------------------

It's no secret that many of us are keen on the docs-as-code approach. But as someone asked this month: if you're moving from a traditional authoring tool like Flare, and want to start storing docs in Git, what should you use to create the docs themselves?

Static site generators are a sensible answer. But how to choose one? `There are so many <https://www.staticgen.com/>`_! The community had a few suggestions to help out: one was to check out `O'Reilly's free intro to SSGs <https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/static-site-generators/9781492048558/>`_. There were also few specific recommendations:

- `Antora <https://antora.org/>`_ (uses AsciiDoc)
- `Gatsby <https://www.gatsbyjs.org/>`_

> - `Hugo <https://gohugo.io/>`_ (and there are `introductions to Jekyll, Hugo and Sphinx here <https://www.docslikecode.com/learn/>`_)

Reviewer: This reads odd to me. Not really connected to Hugo. 

What about adding Hugo, Jekyll and Sphinx as their own items in the list, and then mention the intros at the end?

Author: Yeah, good shout, I'll fix that

On the other side of the pond, `Portland speakers have been announced </conf/portland/2019/news/announcing-speakers/>`_. If you're considering buying tickets, do it soon so you don't miss out: they sell out earlier every year. Want to go but need to persuade someone senior that it's worthwhile? The "`convince your manager </conf/portland/2019/convince-your-manager/>`_" page might help.

You may also be interested to know that we've updated the `code of conduct </code-of-conduct/>`_. Some sections have been improved and others clarified - for full details, check out the `code of conduct blog post </blog/new-community-coc-2019/>`_.

On to what we've been talking about on Slack this month!

------------------------------------------
Roadmaps and documenting 'future features'
------------------------------------------

As documentarians, we sometimes come head-to-head with other stakeholders on what to include in our documentation. One contentious topic is forward-looking statements: some stakeholders might want to tell users that a feature is coming soon. But when we mention a future feature in docs, it can be a problem if that feature doesn't end up being delivered.

> Here are some thoughts about how to approach this:

Reviewer 2: So it looks like we're missing the list here?

Author: I don't quite understand your comment?

Reviewer 2: Oh, I was looking at the wrong view - it had looked like the bulleted list that you have under "Here are some thoughts about how to approach this" was just absent. But it's there! 👍

> - 5 March - Austin, TX, USA - `Lunch meetup <https://www.meetup.com/WriteTheDocs-ATX-Meetup/events/258689786/>`_

Reviewer 2: Do we only include events for the current month (March) here?

Reviewer 2: If we include future months, I have an event to add. :)

Author: I've been going roughly a fortnight into the next month to make sure we don't miss anything. Send me the link and I'll add it to the list!
